enarrer. xiii

might otherwise be doubtful, and evon not unfre-
quently giving a reading that seems certainly pre-
ferable to that of the MSS. It more hequently,
perhaps, than otherwise, agrees with the Paria MS,
when this differs from the Bodleian ; but it is plain
that the MS. from which it was abbreviated was
independent of, if not earlier than either. No one of
them can have been copied from either of the others,
or from any very near relation of either. All three
would seem to have had a distinct desceut from the
author'a autograph.

Ι have thought it right, in forming the text, to put
much value upon this abbreviation, aa the numerous

references to Pez. in the notes will testify. Ihave ’

osten adopted its readings, and have recorded all of
them, where it seemed at all possible that they might
, be right. In innumerable instances, however, I have
taken no notice of them, as manifestly wrong. In
many instantes Ι believe its readings, as recorded in
the notes, to be the preferable ones3 though I have
not ventured to substitute them in the text, in the
face of MS. authority.

mmmm The Nova legenda Angliae ofWinand
episcopoaeonsea de Worde‚pr1uted at London 1n 1016,

⁸321&ngde hasbeen attributed to the authorship

aenda Aaou, of John Oapgrave. It is a mere com-
¹⁴⁰¹¹d⁰¹¹·¹⁵¹⁶’f⁰¹· pilation, however, or rather a copy,

mm almost word for word, from the work
of a far worthier writer, the Sanctilogium of John de
Tinmouth, ¹a monk of St Alban's, who wrote about
AI'I'Jhemllile of St. Hugh in this collection is taken

almost entirely from our Magna Vita. There are two

¹ snum Istat. Bibl. Callon, p. 403 and Hardy’a Introduction lo Mon,
Hinc. Britan„ p. 5.
b

 

